# Reflection on the DnD Battle Game

## Decisions
One of the most important decisions I made during this project is switching how I was going to build it. I started with Vite and just basic JavaScript and HTML but realized that the scope of my idea was definitely going to be held back using those basic tools. Using React let me better control the layout and logic of the game. Also, I plan to further iterate on this as a personal project to make something enjoyable. React just gives me more room to actually do so in the future. Another decision I am actually really glad I made was using AI to help generate the CSS for the project. I wanted to do the entire project without the use of AI because I wanted to prove to myself that I could use my knowledge gained from self-study and App Academy to build a project from scratch. The only problem with that is that I don't have much of a UX designer brain and prefer just the "making things work" part as opposed to the "make it look good" part.

## What Worked?
One of the things I thought worked really well was getting the player data to save to the session. While retreival immediately after the fact still seems a bit broken, I was really concerned that I would just be incapable of using cookies since I got so used to using a full backend with sequel access. In the end, I  was able to save the character data to the session without a database. Another thing that worked well was my battle log. At first I had an issue where my log would replace the player action with the monster action but in the end I managed to fix it by directly pulling the previous version from the state.

## What Would I Do Differently?
So one of the biggest changes I would make if I started this whole thing over is start with react or maybe even Django. In hindsight, my original idea and scope for the game were unrealistic for the timeframe of this project. By overblowing the idea for the project, I actually hindered myself because as I was building, I was trying to take into consideration all of these different ideas and it slowed down my progress on the project. So if I had to do it again, I would definitely temper my expectations for what I could reasonably achieve.

## What Did I Learn?
The biggest lesson learned was that ideas mean nothing without a real plan and the resources to put them forward. In my head, the game was going to have animations and sound effects with different enemy portraits and a full fledged ability system. The only problem was I didn't have the patience or technical know how to make all of that a reality in the span of 2 to 3 months, especially since I started my project with a whole different toolset in mind. I also learned that I need to be okay with admitting defeat. I wanted so badly to be able to sytle the project on my own and get at least half of the features I had envisioned and had I not learned to let go, I might still be stuck just debugging the thing.
